#  Consolidation Document: Module 1
### Daniel Manyoki

"The cost of travel to archives or to purchase access to records, however, is often prohibitively expensive, limiting accessibility  and  inclusivity  of  heritage  resources".

I chose this quote as my point of specified interest for the consolidation document of module 1 because to me it seems to be one of the most integral benefits of transitioning certain aspects of archaeology, such as record keeping and accessibility, to a digital medium. Not only does it aid in the rise of a more inclusive and diverse archaeological community, but also allows for said community to be widened to those born into a lower socio-economic strata who are not eligible to front the costs that are involved in traditional on-site archaeological work. It is also important to mention that there are also those who are digitally illiterate, thereby excluding them from pursuing this form of archaeological analysis. In that case, the introduction of digital mediums as a way of forming an egalitarian means of practicing archaeology can also be an obstacle to others.

A way of bridging the gap that is cost of travel is to bring the monument itself to you by way of creating a 3D render of it using someone else data they may have gathered. The introduction of 3D renders of archaeological monuments (in my case, a gravestone) proves to be very powerful in terms of conveying the original monument in a three-dimensional digital space, that is readily available to the public by way of the internet. As opposed to interpreting the raw data recorded by an academic/professional and having to potentially rely on , at best, a multitude of photographic images to digitize the monument, taken from several angles. Although I was not able to fully experience the emotion of rendering a 3D model of the gravestone I visited multiple times over the course of a week, I could very well imagine that to those families who still visit those graves to experience a 3D render of the grave stone would still evoke an some kind of emotional response, even though the digitized imitation can't fully replicate the real thing.

With regard to the moral quandary of recording the gravestones of people who may have not wanted to be recorded, the significance of what I am doing is not lost on me. It is tremendously important to take care in how were carry ourselves in the resting place of the deceased and not to disrupt any portion of the gravesite that has been added recently. For example, when I went to the graveyard, I chose not to record the sites in which new flowers were recently placed. I did this out of respect for the families who still had emotional ties they wished to keep alive. However, the question of ethics of digital archaeology does not stop there. Although the cemetery I visited is by all definitions a public place, where strangers can come and go, as they wish as long as they don't vandalize the area and disturb the graves, the problem of privacy comes to the forefront. Is it ethically correct for me to record these graves without the express permission of the families of whom I record their relative's grave/memorial? Even if I receive permission from one set of relatives. What about other members of their family who feel uncomfortable with my recording of their loved one's grave? These are the ethical problems you run into when dealing with this type of environment. For graveyards are inherently emotional and private places, where people mourn their relatives. Thereby, it is imperative to remember that although it is important to gather data in order to study archaeological and historical themes by way of digital means, it is also important to understand that we respect the dead and their family members and not exceed our welcome.

In the end, it is important for me to understand why this distinction between public and private is a delicate balance. Permission is always paramount in these scenarios, and when there is no one present to receive permission from; act in a professional manner and respect your environment. Realize that at the end of the day, you yourself are the only person who can identify when recording a piece of information such as measuring the headstone, be thoughtful and respectful.

With respect to how I believe I have taken the feedback given to me, I think that I have improved upon my initial feedback from week 1. I used Obsidian and Zotero in order to corral my thoughts and notes together regarding the readings, although I still need to get used to the process as it is significantly different than my process that I used prior to. I also decided to not dwell to heavily upon failure as a bad thing, as I did with the 3D photogrammetry assignment (although it did hurt to give up after a while of trying). My time management skills will hopefully improve after this week as I have been overwhelmed by my personal life, but yet that is no excuse. So all in all I believe the grade I would give myself is a B/B+, mainly due to improving in the areas in which feedback was given.
